# A process-oriented methodology for evaluating the impact of IT: A proposal and an application in healthcare

### Abstract 
In order to improve the performance of business processes often Information Technologies (ITs) are introduced. However, business processes are known to be complex and distributed among multiple business entities. As a result, the impact of new IT on an entire business process is typically hard to assess as quantitative methods for evaluation are missing. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a process-oriented methodology for evaluating the impact of IT on a business process ahead of its implementation. In our method, process mining and discrete event simulation are key ingredients. Based on automatically stored data, process mining allows for obtaining detailed knowledge on a business process, e.g., it can be discovered how a business process is actually executed. Using discrete event simulation, a model can be built which accurately mimicks the discovered process and which can subsequently be used for exploring and evaluating various redesign of the same process. Our method is evaluated by means of a detailed case study. For a complex dental process, it turns out that the introduction of new digital technologies is largely beneficial for patients and dental lab owners, whereas for dentists there is hardly any benefit. 


By means of discrete event
simulation, the performance of systems can be evaluated,
alternative configurations of a system can be compared,
and an optimal configuration of a system can be found [7].